# 772. Basic Calculator III (Hard)

Implement a basic calculator to evaluate a simple expression string.

The expression string contains only non-negative integers, `'+'`, `'-'`, `'*'`, `'/'` operators, and open `'('` and closing parentheses `')'`. The integer division should **truncate toward zero**.

You may assume that the given expression is always valid. All intermediate results will be in the range of `[-231, 231 - 1]`.

**Note:** You are not allowed to use any built-in function which evaluates strings as mathematical expressions, such as `eval()`.

**Example 1:**

<pre><code><strong>Input: s = "1+1"
</strong><strong>Output: 2
</strong></code></pre>

**Example 2:**

<pre><code><strong>Input: s = "6-4/2"
</strong><strong>Output: 4
</strong></code></pre>

**Example 3:**

<pre><code><strong>Input: s = "2*(5+5*2)/3+(6/2+8)"
</strong><strong>Output: 21
</strong></code></pre>

**Constraints:**

* `1 <= s <= 104`
* `s` consists of digits, `'+'`, `'-'`, `'*'`, `'/'`, `'('`, and `')'`.
* `s` is a **valid** expression.



Let's first consider what to do when we encounter a `(`. We are starting a new isolated expression. Remember, once we evaluate it, it will be a constant. We should treat it as such. For example, `5 * (2 + 2)` is equivalent to `5 * 4`.

**We need to remember `previousOperator`**, because once we have finished evaluating the isolated expression, we need to treat it like a normal number. For example, let's say we have `5 * (2 + 2)`. When we encounter `(`, we have `previousOperator = *` and `5` in the stack. We will evaluate the isolated expression to `curr = 4`, and once we do, we need to remember the `*` so we can perform `5 * 4`.

To remember `previousOperator`, let's push it to the stack. Then we'll set `previousOperator = +` in preparation for evaluating the isolated expression (since as mentioned above, addition is the "default" behavior).

We will now operate as normal **until we see a )**. The reason we can operate as normal is that **each isolated expression is a valid expression in itself**. Once we see a ), we need to convert the entire isolated expression into a constant. Remember that we pushed the `previousOperator` before the isolated expression to the stack before starting. This means that **every number in the stack until an operator `+-*/`** is a term in the isolated expression. We simply find the sum of all these numbers, and treat it as `curr`. Then, we can finally pop the operator from the stack and set it to `previousOperator`.

Once we have done that, it is like there was never an isolated expression at all! For example, let's say we had the following expression:

`2 + 3 * (4 + 3 - 6 / 2)`

Once we reach the `(`, we push `*` onto the stack and have `[2, 3, *]`. Then, we carry on inside the isolated expression. Once we reach the `)`, the stack will look like this:

`[2, 3, *, 4, 3, -3]`

The sum of all the elements after the operator is `4`. Thus, we have `curr = 4`, `previousOperator = *`, and `stack = [2, 3]` after handling the isolated expression.

What if the expression was `2 + 3 * 4` instead? Guess what: once we reach the `4`, we also have `curr = 4`, `previousOperator = *`, and `stack = [2, 3]`. As you can see, the logic flows seamlessly when we treat isolated expressions as their own constant terms.

> To see how little logic is actually needed to convert the solution for Basic Calculator II to the solution for this problem, check out the Python code below. We only added 7 lines of code: lines 20 - 22 and lines 31 - 34.

**Algorithm**

1. Define a helper function `evaluate` which takes an operator and numeric arguments. Note that this function is identical to the one presented in the Basic Calculator II approach.
2. Initialize a few variables:
   * A `stack`
   * `curr` to track the current number we are building.
   * `previousOperator` to track the previous operator we saw.
   * Add a random character that won't appear in the input like `"@"` to `s`.
3. Iterate over the input. For each character `c`:
   * If `c` is a digit, then add it to `curr`.
   * Otherwise, if `c == (`, we are evaluating a new isolated expression. Push `previousOperator` to the stack and set `previousOperator = "+"`.
   * Otherwise, we need to evaluate `curr`. Use the `evaluate` function to apply the `previousOperator` to `curr` and push the result to the stack.
     * Next, reset `curr` to zero and update `previousOperator = c`.
     * Check if `c == ")"`. If so, we are at the end of an isolated expression and must fully evaluate it. Pop from the stack until you reach an operator, summing all numbers you pop into `curr`. Once you reach an operator, update `previousOperator = stack.pop()`.
4. Return the sum of all the numbers in the stack.



```java
class Solution {
    private String evaluate(char operator, String first, String second) {
        int x = Integer.parseInt(first);
        int y = Integer.parseInt(second);
        int res = 0;
        
        if (operator == '+') {
            res = x;
        } else if (operator == '-') {
            res = -x;
        } else if (operator == '*') {
            res = x * y;
        } else {
            res = x / y;
        }
        
        return Integer.toString(res);
    }
    
    public int calculate(String s) {
        Stack<String> stack = new Stack<>();
        String curr = "";
        char previousOperator = '+';
        s += "@";
        Set<String> operators = new HashSet<>(Arrays.asList("+", "-", "*", "/"));
        
        for (char c: s.toCharArray()) {
            if (Character.isDigit(c)) {
                curr += c;
            } else if (c == '(') {
                stack.push("" + previousOperator); // convert char to string before pushing
                previousOperator = '+';
            } else {
                if (previousOperator == '*' || previousOperator == '/') {
                    stack.push(evaluate(previousOperator, stack.pop(), curr));
                } else {
                    stack.push(evaluate(previousOperator, curr, "0"));
                }
                
                curr = "";
                previousOperator = c;
                if (c == ')') {
                    int currentTerm = 0;
                    while (!operators.contains(stack.peek())) {
                        currentTerm += Integer.parseInt(stack.pop());
                    }
                    
                    curr = Integer.toString(currentTerm);
                    previousOperator = stack.pop().charAt(0); // convert string from stack back to char
                }
            }
        }
        
        int ans = 0;
        for (String num: stack) {
            ans += Integer.parseInt(num);
        }

        return ans;
    }
}
```
