# 210. Course Schedule II (Medium)

There are a total of `numCourses` courses you have to take, labeled from `0` to `numCourses - 1`. You are given an array `prerequisites` where `prerequisites[i] = [ai, bi]` indicates that you **must** take course `bi` first if you want to take course `ai`.

* For example, the pair `[0, 1]`, indicates that to take course `0` you have to first take course `1`.

Return _the_ <mark style="color:red;">**ordering**</mark> _of courses you should take to finish all courses_. If there are many valid answers, return **any** of them. If it is impossible to finish all courses, return **an empty array**.

**Example 1:**

<pre><code><strong>Input: numCourses = 2, prerequisites = [[1,0]]
</strong><strong>Output: [0,1]
</strong><strong>Explanation: There are a total of 2 courses to take. To take course 1 you should have finished course 0. So the correct course order is [0,1].
</strong></code></pre>

**Example 2:**

<pre data-overflow="wrap"><code><strong>Input: numCourses = 4, prerequisites = [[1,0],[2,0],[3,1],[3,2]]
</strong><strong>Output: [0,2,1,3]
</strong><strong>Explanation: There are a total of 4 courses to take. To take course 3 you should have finished both courses 1 and 2. Both courses 1 and 2 should be taken after you finished course 0.
</strong>So one correct course order is [0,1,2,3]. Another correct ordering is [0,2,1,3].
</code></pre>

**Example 3:**

<pre><code><strong>Input: numCourses = 1, prerequisites = []
</strong><strong>Output: [0]
</strong></code></pre>

**Constraints:**

* `1 <= numCourses <= 2000`
* `0 <= prerequisites.length <= numCourses * (numCourses - 1)`
* `prerequisites[i].length == 2`
* `0 <= ai, bi < numCourses`
* `ai != bi`
* All the pairs `[ai, bi]` are **distinct**.

```java
class Solution {
    public int[] findOrder(int numCourses, int[][] prerequisites) {
        List<Integer>[] graph = buildGraph(numCourses, prerequisites);
        int[] indegree = new int[numCourses];
        for (int[] curr: prerequisites) {
            int from = curr[1];
            int to = curr[0];
            indegree[to]++;
        }

        Queue<Integer> queue = new LinkedList<>();
        for (int i = 0; i < numCourses; i++) {
            if (indegree[i] == 0) {
                queue.offer(i);
            }
        }

        int[] res = new int[numCourses];
        int count = 0;
        while (!queue.isEmpty()) {
            int curr = queue.poll();
            res[count] = curr;
            count++;

            for (int adj: graph[curr]) {
                indegree[adj]--;
                if (indegree[adj] == 0) {
                    queue.offer(adj);
                }
            }
        }

        if (count != numCourses) { // there exists a cycle
            return new int[]{};
        }

        return res;
    }

    private List<Integer>[] buildGraph(int numCourses, int[][] prerequisites) {
        List<Integer>[] graph = new LinkedList[numCourses];
        // Initialize each node's adj list
        for (int i = 0; i < numCourses; i++) {
            graph[i] = new LinkedList<>();
        }

        for (int[] curr: prerequisites) {
            int from = curr[1];
            int to = curr[0];
            graph[from].add(to);
        }

        return graph;
    }
}
```

### **Complexity Analysis**

* Time Complexity: $$O(V+E)$$ where $$V$$ represents the number of vertices and $$E$$ represents the number of edges. We pop each node exactly once from the zero in-degree queue and that gives us $$V$$. Also, for each vertex, we iterate over its adjacency list and in totality, we iterate over all the edges in the graph which gives us $$E$$. Hence, $$O(V+E)$$
* Space Complexity: $$O(V+E)$$. We use an intermediate queue data structure to keep all the nodes with 0 in-degree. In the worst case, there won't be any prerequisite relationship and the queue will contain all the vertices initially since all of them will have 0 in-degree. That gives us $$O(V)$$. Additionally, we also use the adjacency list to represent our graph initially. The space occupied is defined by the number of edges because for each node as the key, we have all its adjacent nodes in the form of a list as the value. Hence, $$O(E)$$. So, the overall space complexity is $$O(V+E)$$.

