# 746. Min Cost Climbing Stairs (Easy)

You are given an integer array `cost` where `cost[i]` is the cost of `ith` step on a staircase. Once you pay the cost, you can either climb one or two steps.

You can either start from the step with index `0`, or the step with index `1`.

Return _the minimum cost to reach the top of the floor_.

**Example 1:**

<pre><code><strong>Input: cost = [10,15,20]
</strong><strong>Output: 15
</strong><strong>Explanation: You will start at index 1.
</strong>- Pay 15 and climb two steps to reach the top.
The total cost is 15.
</code></pre>

**Example 2:**

<pre><code><strong>Input: cost = [1,100,1,1,1,100,1,1,100,1]
</strong><strong>Output: 6
</strong><strong>Explanation: You will start at index 0.
</strong>- Pay 1 and climb two steps to reach index 2.
- Pay 1 and climb two steps to reach index 4.
- Pay 1 and climb two steps to reach index 6.
- Pay 1 and climb one step to reach index 7.
- Pay 1 and climb two steps to reach index 9.
- Pay 1 and climb one step to reach the top.
The total cost is 6. 
</code></pre>

**Constraints:**

* `2 <= cost.length <= 1000`
* `0 <= cost[i] <= 999`



### Approach: DP

1. State: `minimumCost[i]` represents the minimum cost of reaching the $$ith$$ step. The array should be one element longer than `costs` and start with all elements set to `0`.

* The reason the array should contain one additional element is because we will treat the _top floor_ as the _step_ to reach.

2. Iterate over the array starting at the 2nd index. The problem statement says we are allowed to start at the $$0th$$ or $$1st$$ step, so we know the minimum cost to reach those steps is `0`.
3. the minimum cost to reach the $$ith$$ step is equal to `minimumCost[i] = min(minimumCost[i - 1] + cost[i - 1], minimumCost[i - 2] + cost[i - 2])`

```java
class Solution {
    public int minCostClimbingStairs(int[] cost) {
        int[] dp = new int[cost.length + 1];

        for (int i = 2; i <= cost.length; i++) {
            dp[i] = Math.min(dp[i - 1] + cost[i - 1], dp[i - 2] + cost[i - 2]);
        }

        return dp[cost.length];
    }
}
```
